README.md, before:

A full stack crypto exchange for sniping the latest quality shit coins on binance smart chain

## DISCLAIMER

```diff
- >99% of pairs on BSC are scams. Using this sniper is high risk
```

```diff
- I would suggest using pancake swap website over the buy feature as it can malfunction. Purchasing is disabled by default in the environment variables
```

## FEATURES

### WEB INTERFACE

Overview
![link1](screenshots/all.png)

All Tokens table displays the latest quality tokens
![link1](screenshots/all_token.png)

Token Info table displays more details on the selected coin
![link1](screenshots/token_info.png)

Mark Bad form enables user to manaully remove a coin with a reason

<img src="screenshots/mark.png" alt="drawing" width="250"/>

Buy form enables user to quickly purchase the token for a given price

<img src="screenshots/buy.png" alt="drawing" width="250"/>

Quote alert shows more details when clicking buy

<img src="screenshots/quote.png" alt="drawing" width="300"/>

## TECH

- Languages: python, SQL, javascript, html, css, bash
- Frameworks: flask
- OS: Raspberry Pi Linux server and any client OS
- APIs: web3, bscscan, google custom search api
- SQL tools: mysql-connector, mariadb
- Web scraping tools: selenium, beautifulsoup4, pyvirtualdisplay
- Charting: matplotlib
- Pi monitoring tools: gpiozero
- Storing env variables: dotenv
- 3rd party: Metamask

## Extra Features

#### Python

- State management in flask for dynamic user experience
- Flask redirects
- Flask flash mesages. Used to display messages for action: marking token bad and showing transaction reciept
- REST to GET data and POST data securely
- Buy module to wrap web3 with functions to quote and buy tokens from pancake swap
- SQL modules to wrap connection, select and update methods for rpi and client side

#### Standard Web (html / js / css)

- Html template rendering
- Javascript with alert handling confirmation
- Javascript with XMLHttp post requests to flask routes with callback functions on success
- CSS styling

#### Raspberry Pi

- Bash commands to run cronjobs
- Cronjob to run python code to
  - check new tokens
  - check early status\*
  - check mature status\*\*
  - check drops in liquidity
  - check google search results
  - checks memory in-case of reboot
- \*Early status checks tokenomics for
  - is contract verified
  - is contract not a proxy
  - is contract not a honeypot
  - is ownership renounced in the contract
- \*\*Mature status shecks tokenomics for
  - is liquidity >= 1 wbnb
  - is not a rugpull (top holder's locked liquidity percent >=95)
  - is lock expiry >= 11months from now

#### Code Style

- Docstrings for all fuctions
- Code formatted with python black

#### Other

- Cmd line to backup tokens sql data to client folder
- Cmd line to show plot of all locks found

## INSTALL and RUN

### SETUP PI

1. Load ssd using rpi imager
   using the latest debian light version. I used:
   OS Lite 32bit debian bullseye 2022-04-04

2. Modify the static ip
   https://pimylifeup.com/raspberry-pi-static-ip-address/

3. Security
   https://pimylifeup.com/raspberry-pi-security/
   inluding fail2ban
   https://pimylifeup.com/raspberry-pi-fail2ban/

4. Turn off lights
   https://community.getumbrel.com/t/turn-off-the-leds-of-the-raspberry-pi/406

5. Setup mariadb
   https://pimylifeup.com/raspberry-pi-mysql/.
   While logged in as root, create a usergroup like this

   `$ CREATE USER 'piuser'@'%' IDENTIFIED BY '<your sql user password for piuser>';`

   `$ GRANT ALL PRIVILEGES ON *.* TO 'piuser'@'%' IDENTIFIED BY '<your sql user password for piuser>';`

   `$ FLUSH PRIVILEGES;`

   In the tokens_rpi/.env file replace `sql_pass` with the password used above. Ensure the other params under '# sql' are correct. Change the bind address for remote connections

   `$ sudo nano /etc/mysql/mariadb.conf.d/50-server.cnf`

   set `bind-address = 0.0.0.0` under `[mysqld]` and save.
   Reboot to enable remote using

   `$ sudo reboot`

   In Workbench open a connection with piuser user.
   To create the tokens table run the create command in file database/db_create.sql

6. Change bscscan environment vars in tokens_rpi/.env file by setting
   variables under '# bscscan' from your bscscan account. Sign up for an account here https://bscscan.com/

7. Change google environment vars in tokens_rpi/.env file by setting
   variables under '# google' from your google api account. Sign up for an account here https://developers.google.com/custom-search/v1/introduction

8. setup Cyberduck or Putty for file transfer to pi. Transfer folder from repo called "tokens_rpi" to /home/pi/ on pi

9. in pi terminal install pip3

   `$ sudo apt-get install python3-pip`

10. in pi terminal, insatll all python modules for the project

    `$ pip3 install -r tokens_rpi/requirements.txt`

11. in pi terminal setup scraping tools

    `$ sudo apt-get install chromium-chromedriver`

    and ensure it is in usr/bin with

    `$ whereis chromedriver`

    Get xvfb (X virtual framebuffer) which enables you to run graphical applications without a display

    `$ sudo apt-get install xvfb`

12. In pi terminal set cronjobs

    `$ crontab -e`

    If opening for the first time select '1. /bin/nano'.
    Paste contents from "tokens_rpi/crontab-e.txt" into the bottom of crontab file and save.

13. Wait approx 10 minutes for some tokens to load
    or check the output of check_new for some new tokens

    `$ cd tokens_rpi`

    `$ cat check_new.log`

    Once new tokens appear in the log without error
    either wait for good tokens to show (appx hours) or manually enter in a good token.
    To manually enter a good token, in workbench run insert command at the bottom of database/db_create.sql.

    Check it is in the database with

    `$ select * from tokens;`

    and find the mature_status column with at least 1 'good' value

### SETUP CLIENT

1. Install the environment variables in the client/.env file by replacing the following variables

   - `is_dev_buy`
     see the message about what to leave it to, suggested to leave it as true
   - `secret_key`
     with some random key see description in file for why
   - `personal_bnb_addr`
     this is where wbnb will be sent from and tokens received
   - `private`
     with metamask password. you can find it in the extention settings
   - `pytz_local_tz`
     with your timezone see message for options
   - `sql_host `
     with pi's ip address. e.g. 192.168.xxx.xxx
   - `sql_pass`
     with the users sql password
   - other sql params (if other values are required)
   - `backup_folder`
     with a filepath on the client computer to backup the tokens table

2. To run the client server
   on your client computer open the terminal and run flask with

   `$ cd /path/to/Crypto Sniper/client`

   `$ pip3 install -r requirements.txt`

   `$ python app.py`

   Open the browser in the link provided (should be http://localhost:5000)

Commit message:

MODIFY gitignore and readme setup of .env files
ADD not ignoring (including) .env files
MODIFY .env files to env so they are included in clone
UPDATE readme instruction to change env files to .env

README.md, after:

A full stack crypto exchange for sniping the latest quality shit coins on binance smart chain

## DISCLAIMER

```diff
- >99% of pairs on BSC are scams. Using this sniper is high risk
```

```diff
- I would suggest using pancake swap website over the buy feature as it can malfunction. Purchasing is disabled by default in the environment variables
```

## FEATURES

### WEB INTERFACE

Overview
![link1](screenshots/all.png)

All Tokens table displays the latest quality tokens
![link1](screenshots/all_token.png)

Token Info table displays more details on the selected coin
![link1](screenshots/token_info.png)

Mark Bad form enables user to manaully remove a coin with a reason

<img src="screenshots/mark.png" alt="drawing" width="250"/>

Buy form enables user to quickly purchase the token for a given price

<img src="screenshots/buy.png" alt="drawing" width="250"/>

Quote alert shows more details when clicking buy

<img src="screenshots/quote.png" alt="drawing" width="300"/>

## TECH

- Languages: python, SQL, javascript, html, css, bash
- Frameworks: flask
- OS: Raspberry Pi Linux server and any client OS
- APIs: web3, bscscan, google custom search api
- SQL tools: mysql-connector, mariadb
- Web scraping tools: selenium, beautifulsoup4, pyvirtualdisplay
- Charting: matplotlib
- Pi monitoring tools: gpiozero
- Storing env variables: dotenv
- 3rd party: Metamask

## Extra Features

#### Python

- State management in flask for dynamic user experience
- Flask redirects
- Flask flash mesages. Used to display messages for action: marking token bad and showing transaction reciept
- REST to GET data and POST data securely
- Buy module to wrap web3 with functions to quote and buy tokens from pancake swap
- SQL modules to wrap connection, select and update methods for rpi and client side

#### Standard Web (html / js / css)

- Html template rendering
- Javascript with alert handling confirmation
- Javascript with XMLHttp post requests to flask routes with callback functions on success
- CSS styling

#### Raspberry Pi

- Bash commands to run cronjobs
- Cronjob to run python code to
  - check new tokens
  - check early status\*
  - check mature status\*\*
  - check drops in liquidity
  - check google search results
  - checks memory in-case of reboot
- \*Early status checks tokenomics for
  - is contract verified
  - is contract not a proxy
  - is contract not a honeypot
  - is ownership renounced in the contract
- \*\*Mature status shecks tokenomics for
  - is liquidity >= 1 wbnb
  - is not a rugpull (top holder's locked liquidity percent >=95)
  - is lock expiry >= 11months from now

#### Code Style

- Docstrings for all fuctions
- Code formatted with python black

#### Other

- Cmd line to backup tokens sql data to client folder
- Cmd line to show plot of all locks found

## INSTALL and RUN

### SETUP PI

1. Load ssd using rpi imager
   using the latest debian light version. I used:
   OS Lite 32bit debian bullseye 2022-04-04

2. Modify the static ip
   https://pimylifeup.com/raspberry-pi-static-ip-address/

3. Security
   https://pimylifeup.com/raspberry-pi-security/
   inluding fail2ban
   https://pimylifeup.com/raspberry-pi-fail2ban/

4. Turn off lights
   https://community.getumbrel.com/t/turn-off-the-leds-of-the-raspberry-pi/406

5. Setup mariadb
   https://pimylifeup.com/raspberry-pi-mysql/.
   While logged in as root, create a usergroup like this

   `$ CREATE USER 'piuser'@'%' IDENTIFIED BY '<your sql user password for piuser>';`

   `$ GRANT ALL PRIVILEGES ON *.* TO 'piuser'@'%' IDENTIFIED BY '<your sql user password for piuser>';`

   `$ FLUSH PRIVILEGES;`
   Rename the tokens_rpi/env file to tokens_rpi/.env (including the dot). In the tokens_rpi/.env file replace `sql_pass` with the password used above. Ensure the other params under '# sql' are correct. Change the bind address for remote connections

   `$ sudo nano /etc/mysql/mariadb.conf.d/50-server.cnf`

   set `bind-address = 0.0.0.0` under `[mysqld]` and save.
   Reboot to enable remote using

   `$ sudo reboot`

   In Workbench open a connection with piuser user.
   To create the tokens table run the create command in file database/db_create.sql

6. Change bscscan environment vars in tokens_rpi/.env file by setting
   variables under '# bscscan' from your bscscan account. Sign up for an account here https://bscscan.com/

7. Change google environment vars in tokens_rpi/.env file by setting
   variables under '# google' from your google api account. Sign up for an account here https://developers.google.com/custom-search/v1/introduction

8. setup Cyberduck or Putty for file transfer to pi. Transfer folder from repo called "tokens_rpi" to /home/pi/ on pi

9. in pi terminal install pip3

   `$ sudo apt-get install python3-pip`

10. in pi terminal, insatll all python modules for the project

    `$ pip3 install -r tokens_rpi/requirements.txt`

11. in pi terminal setup scraping tools

    `$ sudo apt-get install chromium-chromedriver`

    and ensure it is in usr/bin with

    `$ whereis chromedriver`

    Get xvfb (X virtual framebuffer) which enables you to run graphical applications without a display

    `$ sudo apt-get install xvfb`

12. In pi terminal set cronjobs

    `$ crontab -e`

    If opening for the first time select '1. /bin/nano'.
    Paste contents from "tokens_rpi/crontab-e.txt" into the bottom of crontab file and save.

13. Wait approx 10 minutes for some tokens to load
    or check the output of check_new for some new tokens

    `$ cd tokens_rpi`

    `$ cat check_new.log`

    Once new tokens appear in the log without error
    either wait for good tokens to show (appx hours) or manually enter in a good token.
    To manually enter a good token, in workbench run insert command at the bottom of database/db_create.sql.

    Check it is in the database with

    `$ select * from tokens;`

    and find the mature_status column with at least 1 'good' value

### SETUP CLIENT

1. Rename the client/env file to client/.env (including the dot).

2. Install the environment variables in the client/.env file by replacing the following variables

   - `is_dev_buy`
     see the message about what to leave it to, suggested to leave it as true
   - `secret_key`
     with some random key see description in file for why
   - `personal_bnb_addr`
     this is where wbnb will be sent from and tokens received
   - `private`
     with metamask password. you can find it in the extention settings
   - `pytz_local_tz`
     with your timezone see message for options
   - `sql_host `
     with pi's ip address. e.g. 192.168.xxx.xxx
   - `sql_pass`
     with the users sql password
   - other sql params (if other values are required)
   - `backup_folder`
     with a filepath on the client computer to backup the tokens table

3. To run the client server
   on your client computer open the terminal and run flask with

   `$ cd /path/to/Crypto Sniper/client`

   `$ pip3 install -r requirements.txt`

   `$ python app.py`

   Open the browser in the link provided (should be http://localhost:5000)
